# World Population

*Data Analytics, June 2020, Berlin*

## Content
* [Project Description]
* [Dataset]
* [Visualisation with Tableau]

## Project Description

This  project focuses on the world population and its structure from 1950s until today. 

## Dataset

The data was obtained from United Nations, available on their website: https://population.un.org/wpp/Download/Standard/Population/. The selected data includes estimates of the population in terms of size, age and sex throughout 70 years. 

The dataset consists of three excel files that were generated by rearranging the original files downloaded from the website of United Nations. 
The first dataset (UN_Dataset1) includes the total number of people in each country and region. 
The second dataset (UN_Dataset2) includes the information about the population in terms of size, age and sex in each country and region, as well as the growth of population every five years. 
The third dataset (UN_Dataset3) represents a table generated from the first two spreadsheets, arranged in 


## Visualisation with Tableau

The Tableau file consists of 6 dashboards. The first dashboard provides a map of the world and the relative population size of each country, and gives an overview of the population growth through time. Although there are no major changes in relative population sizes, with China and India being the most populous countries, followed by the United States, the considerable growth of population in some African countries, as well as Brasil and Indonesia is evident. 

The second dashboard provides more detailed information on a region level, including the population size in billions for each region, population growth over time, and pie chart showing the contribution of each region to the overall population. 

The third dashboard includes the sex information of the total population, and demonstrates slight changes through time, with males forming a slightly larger portion of the population. 

The fourth dashboard represents an overview of numbers of males and females in each region through time, and provides more information about the ratios of males and females in each region. It demonstrates a certain level of continuity of the proportions of males and females, with some continents (e.g. Europe and North America) having more females than males. Whereas this trend is consistent through time in Europe, North and South America show a larger increase in the female population. However, given the size of the Asian population, the relative increase in the male population observed in the previous dashboard on the world level is a direct consequence of males being more numerous in Asia. 

The fifth dashboard shows the age structure of the population, with younger age groups being more dominant, a pattern that does not change through time and is evident in each region.

The sixt dashboard provides a detailed overview of the age and sex groups through time (period of 10 years), and demonstrate a positive correlation of age and sex. That is, females form a larger portion of the older age groups and their relative numbers increase with age, meaning that they tend to live longer than males. 

The Tableau file can be found at the following link: https://public.tableau.com/profile/milena.vasic#!/vizhome/World_Population_Overview/WorldPopulation


